---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-18
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
---
##### [E3 Instructions](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html)

### Introduction <br>
The latest WOD was [Invoice 1](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html) involved creating a sales invoice containing 5 or more different products. The invoice included the following: item, quantity, price, extended price. Additionally, the invoice includes a subtotal price, along with the taxes and final total. 

### Experience <br>
My experience in completing this latest WOD was definitely a workout. I was a little frustrated that I didn't complete it on the first attempt because I was so close, maybe just off by a minute. What happened was that I found a minor error with just a few minutes left and I wasn't able to fix it in time. On the second attempt, I managed to complete it with no issues within the Av time range of about 22 minutes. I think as a whole this WOD was straightforward and not too complicated. The task was burdensome because it involved multiple products with identical sets information, increasing the likelihood of errors.

### Preparation <br>
To prepare, I read the instructions carefully and outlined what was needed to accomplish the tasks involved in creating the invoice. For certain tasks that I was unsure about, I reviewed our class notes and the Introducing Expressions and Operators presentation slides before starting. I have learned from working on the other WODs that outlining how to complete the tasks before starting helps and have since applied this approach with our WODs.

What would I have done to be better prepared or what might I try differently for the next WOD? I don't know that there's anything that I would've done differently, except to be more careful especially when copying and pasting code. Had I been more careful this time around, maybe I would've completed the WOD on my first attempt within the required time. 

